docs/UserGuide.adoc, before:

= User Guide
:site-section: UserGuide
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
endif::[]
:experimental:

This product is not meant for end-users and therefore there is no user-friendly installer.
Please refer to the <<DeveloperGuide#setting-up, Setting up>> section to learn how to set up the project.

== Starting the program

*Using IntelliJ*

. Find the project in the `Project Explorer` (usually located at the left side)
.. If the `Project Explorer` is not visible, press kbd:[ALT+1] for Windows/Linux, kbd:[CMD+1] for macOS to open the `Project Explorer` tab
. Go to the `src` folder and locate the `Main` file
. Right click the file and select `Run Main.main()`
. The program now should run on the `Console` (usually located at the bottom side)
. Now you can interact with the program through the `Console`

*Using Command Line*

. 'Build' the project using IntelliJ
. Open the `Terminal`/`Command Prompt`
. `cd` into the project's `out\production\addressbook-level2` directory
. Type `java seedu.addressbook.Main`, then Enter to execute
. Now you can interact with the program through the CLI

== Changes from level 1

What's different from AddressBook-Level1:

* Support for storing address (`a/`) and tags (`t/`)
* Support for marking a contact detail as 'private' (`pa/`) (`pe/`) (`pp/`)
* View details of a person (`view` : shows non-private details), (`viewall` : shows all details)

== Viewing help : `help`

Format: `help`

[TIP]
====
Help is also shown if you enter an incorrect command e.g. `abcd`
====

== Adding a person: `add`

Adds a person to the address book. +
Format: `add NAME [p]p/PHONE_NUMBER [p]e/EMAIL [p]a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]...`

****
Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters, items in `SQUARE_BRACKETS` are optional,
items with `...` after them can have multiple instances. Order of parameters are fixed.

Put a `p` before the phone / email / address prefixes to mark it as `private`. `private` details can only
be seen using the `viewall` command.

Persons can have any number of tags (including 0).
****

Examples:

* `add John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@gmail.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01`
* `add Betsy Crowe pp/1234567 e/betsycrowe@gmail.com pa/Newgate Prison t/criminal t/friend`

== Listing all persons : `list`

Shows a list of all persons, along with their non-private details, in the address book. +
Format: `list`

== Finding all persons containing any keyword in their name: `find`

Finds persons whose names contain any of the given keywords. +
Format: `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`

[NOTE]
====
The search is case sensitive, the order of the keywords does not matter, only the name is searched,
and persons matching at least one keyword will be returned (i.e. `OR` search).
====

Examples:

* `find John` +
Returns `John Doe` but not `john`.

* `find Betsy Tim John` +
Returns Any person having names `Betsy`, `Tim`, or `John`.

== Deleting a person : `delete`

Deletes the specified person from the address book. Irreversible. +
Format: `delete INDEX`

****
Deletes the person at the specified `INDEX`.
The index refers to the index number shown in the most recent listing.
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`delete 2` +
Deletes the 2nd person in the address book.

* `find Betsy` +
`delete 1` +
Deletes the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

== View non-private details of a person : `view`

Displays the non-private details of the specified person. +
Format: `view INDEX`

****
Views the person at the specified `INDEX`.
The index refers to the index number shown in the most recent listing.
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`view 2` +
Views the 2nd person in the address book.

* `find Betsy` +
`view 1` +
Views the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

== View all details of a person : `viewall`

Displays all details (including private details) of the specified person. +
Format: `viewall INDEX`

****
Views all details of the person at the specified `INDEX`.
The index refers to the index number shown in the most recent listing.
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`viewall 2` +
Views all details of the 2nd person in the address book.

* `find Betsy` +
`viewall 1` +
Views all details of the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

== Clearing all entries : `clear`

Clears all entries from the address book. +
Format: `clear`

== Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program. +
Format: `exit`

== Saving the data

Address book data are saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data.

There is no need to save manually.

== Changing the save location

Address book data are saved in a file called `addressbook.txt` in the project root folder.
You can change the location by specifying the file path as a program argument.

Example:

* `java seedu.addressbook.Main mydata.txt`

[NOTE]
====
The file name must end in `.txt` for it to be acceptable to the program.

When running the program inside IntelliJ, you can set command line parameters
before running the program.
====

Commit message:

Updated User Guide for sort command

docs/UserGuide.adoc, after:

= User Guide
:site-section: UserGuide
:imagesDir: images
:stylesDir: stylesheets
ifdef::env-github[]
:tip-caption: :bulb:
:note-caption: :information_source:
endif::[]
:experimental:

This product is not meant for end-users and therefore there is no user-friendly installer.
Please refer to the <<DeveloperGuide#setting-up, Setting up>> section to learn how to set up the project.

== Starting the program

*Using IntelliJ*

. Find the project in the `Project Explorer` (usually located at the left side)
.. If the `Project Explorer` is not visible, press kbd:[ALT+1] for Windows/Linux, kbd:[CMD+1] for macOS to open the `Project Explorer` tab
. Go to the `src` folder and locate the `Main` file
. Right click the file and select `Run Main.main()`
. The program now should run on the `Console` (usually located at the bottom side)
. Now you can interact with the program through the `Console`

*Using Command Line*

. 'Build' the project using IntelliJ
. Open the `Terminal`/`Command Prompt`
. `cd` into the project's `out\production\addressbook-level2` directory
. Type `java seedu.addressbook.Main`, then Enter to execute
. Now you can interact with the program through the CLI

== Changes from level 1

What's different from AddressBook-Level1:

* Support for storing address (`a/`) and tags (`t/`)
* Support for marking a contact detail as 'private' (`pa/`) (`pe/`) (`pp/`)
* View details of a person (`view` : shows non-private details), (`viewall` : shows all details)

== Viewing help : `help`

Format: `help`

[TIP]
====
Help is also shown if you enter an incorrect command e.g. `abcd`
====

== Adding a person: `add`

Adds a person to the address book. +
Format: `add NAME [p]p/PHONE_NUMBER [p]e/EMAIL [p]a/ADDRESS [t/TAG]...`

****
Words in `UPPER_CASE` are the parameters, items in `SQUARE_BRACKETS` are optional,
items with `...` after them can have multiple instances. Order of parameters are fixed.

Put a `p` before the phone / email / address prefixes to mark it as `private`. `private` details can only
be seen using the `viewall` command.

Persons can have any number of tags (including 0).
****

Examples:

* `add John Doe p/98765432 e/johnd@gmail.com a/John street, block 123, #01-01`
* `add Betsy Crowe pp/1234567 e/betsycrowe@gmail.com pa/Newgate Prison t/criminal t/friend`

== Listing all persons : `list`

Shows a list of all persons, along with their non-private details, in the address book. +
Format: `list`

== Finding all persons containing any keyword in their name: `find`

Finds persons whose names contain any of the given keywords. +
Format: `find KEYWORD [MORE_KEYWORDS]`

[NOTE]
====
The search is case sensitive, the order of the keywords does not matter, only the name is searched,
and persons matching at least one keyword will be returned (i.e. `OR` search).
====

Examples:

* `find John` +
Returns `John Doe` but not `john`.

* `find Betsy Tim John` +
Returns Any person having names `Betsy`, `Tim`, or `John`.

== Deleting a person : `delete`

Deletes the specified person from the address book. Irreversible. +
Format: `delete INDEX`

****
Deletes the person at the specified `INDEX`.
The index refers to the index number shown in the most recent listing.
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`delete 2` +
Deletes the 2nd person in the address book.

* `find Betsy` +
`delete 1` +
Deletes the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

== View non-private details of a person : `view`

Displays the non-private details of the specified person. +
Format: `view INDEX`

****
Views the person at the specified `INDEX`.
The index refers to the index number shown in the most recent listing.
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`view 2` +
Views the 2nd person in the address book.

* `find Betsy` +
`view 1` +
Views the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

== View all details of a person : `viewall`

Displays all details (including private details) of the specified person. +
Format: `viewall INDEX`

****
Views all details of the person at the specified `INDEX`.
The index refers to the index number shown in the most recent listing.
****

Examples:

* `list` +
`viewall 2` +
Views all details of the 2nd person in the address book.

* `find Betsy` +
`viewall 1` +
Views all details of the 1st person in the results of the `find` command.

== Sorting address book: `sort` 

Sorts the list of all persons, alphabetically (case-insensitive), in the address book. 
Format: `list`

== Clearing all entries : `clear`

Clears all entries from the address book. +
Format: `clear`

== Exiting the program : `exit`

Exits the program. +
Format: `exit`

== Saving the data

Address book data are saved in the hard disk automatically after any command that changes the data.

There is no need to save manually.

== Changing the save location

Address book data are saved in a file called `addressbook.txt` in the project root folder.
You can change the location by specifying the file path as a program argument.

Example:

* `java seedu.addressbook.Main mydata.txt`

[NOTE]
====
The file name must end in `.txt` for it to be acceptable to the program.

When running the program inside IntelliJ, you can set command line parameters
before running the program.
====
